---
title: Project Engineer (4-10 years) - Stormwater Design and Planning - Northern Colorado
layout: page
---

We are seeking a civil engineer to join our engineering firm’s Stormwater Design and Planning Team
with a focus on work in Northern Colorado business. This team enjoys working on projects covering all aspects of stormwater analysis
and design. These projects are often multi-disciplinary and exemplify all aspects of stormwater and civil infrastructure design. Project
examples may include: preparation of Stormwater Master Plans; Technical Floodplain Analysis using 1D and 2D HECRAS; Hydrology
Studies using EPA-SWMM; Design of Stormwater Systems and Stream Restoration Projects using CAD Civil3D; Major Drainageway
Floodplain Studies and FEMA Map Revision Preparation; and Water Quality Improvement Design. The person who fills this position will
assist over the life cycle of these projects, from assessment, design, permitting, implementation through construction. The ideal
candidate will have a passion for stormwater management, flood mitigation, streams, rivers, and watersheds. A highly qualified
candidate will also bring experience in hydrology, hydraulics, and computer programs noted above.
This candidate will initially collaborate with ICON’s project management team and lead technical design tasks. Work may include
mentoring junior level staff. This candidate is expected to advance their career through project management and/or senior level project
engineering responsibilities

<b>Essential Responsibilities</b>
<li>Calculate unique water quality treatment systems and analyze flood mitigation infrastructure.</li>
<li>Study watersheds, analyze basin characteristics, precipitation, and runoff volumes.</li>
<li>Designing storm sewers, detention/water quality systems , channels, and natural drainage systems.</li>
<li>Floodplain studies and related FEMA flood mapping products.</li>
<li>Stormwater Management, Erosion and Sediment Control, and Master Planning studies.</li>
<li>Permitting: stormwater, floodplain development, and wetland permit applications.</li>
<li>Construction plan and specification development, construction management.</li>
<li>Prepare outreach materials, attend meetings, and present technical information to clients.</li>
<li>Work under the guidance and supervision from ICON’s Project Management Team.</li>
<li>Review work and Mentor Junior Staff as assigned</li>

<br>
<b>Education / Experience</b>

<li>Bachelor’s and/or Masters Degree in civil engineering, or related field, with emphasis in a water resources or environmental
studies.</li>
<li>PE designation or the ability to obtain within 1-year of hire date.</li>
<li>4 to 10 years of full-time experience in civil and water resource engineering.</li>
<li>Willingness to ask questions, seek instruction, and problem solve.</li>

<br>
<br>

<b>Benefits / Additional Information</b>

<li>ICON offers a competitive compensation package that includes paid time off, holiday pay, health/dental/vision insurance, 401k, I-Coin Performance Bonus Program, staff social events, training, internal committees, career development, RTD ECOPass, and much more!</li>
<li>ICON offers a flexible work week, remote, and hybrid work environments. Details depend on position and team assignments.</li>
<li>Salary range for this position is $90k to $120k, dependent on experience. All inquiries will be handled confidentially.</li>
“ICON provides a collaborative environment where our employees learn and grow. We invest in each team member’s growth
and their knowledge in the industry through career training, mentoring, and management of a work-life balance. This
supportive atmosphere guarantees our employees feel like a part of the team.”

<br>

<b>Please send your letter of interest and resume of qualifications via email to
Mr. Craig Jacobson | <cjacobson@iconeng.com></b>
