---
title: About ICON Engineering
layout: page
---

<!-- Content -->
Founded in January 1997, ICON Engineering, Inc. is a locally owned and operated
consulting civil engineering firm based in Centennial, Colorado.  Although our
areas of service include nearly all aspects of civil engineering, we are best
known for our expertise in water resources.  ICON specializes in complex
floodplain modeling and hydrologic/hydraulic analyses, development of river and
drainage master plans, stream stabilization and restoration improvements, bridge
hydraulics, and design of utility and storm water infrastructure.  ICON’s
capabilities also include roadway design, land development, and the development
of geospatial and web-based solutions.   ICON currently employs over 20
engineering staff with GIS, CAD, and administrative support.

ICON offers its clients expertise in the Planning, Design, and Management of
civil engineering projects, with emphasis on drainage, flood control, and
watershed management. ICON specializes in complex floodplain modeling and
hydrologic/hydraulic analyses, development of river and drainage master plans,
stream stabilization and restoration, bridge hydraulics, roadways, and design of
utility and storm water infrastructure. ICON currently serves as a production
contractor developing Digital Flood Insurance Rate Maps (DFIRMs) for FEMA, the
Colorado Water Conservation Board (CWCB), and the Urban Drainage and Flood
Control District (UDFCD). We bring firsthand knowledge of flood insurance
requirements; Community Rating System (CRS); and floodplain mapping protocols.
Our GIS capabilities remain on the cutting edge where we routinely integrate GIS
components into our master plans, often providing interactive components to
enhance user experience.

Our technical expertise is already well known throughout Front Range
communities. Since the 2013 floods, we have been actively working with
communities including the City of Boulder, Boulder County, City of Aurora, Weld
County, Fort Collins, and Estes Park, completing flood documentation, updating
flood risk maps, and preparing flood recovery master plans and designs. For the
City of Boulder, we completed a 2-dimensional floodplain model that essentially
recreated the flood event on Fourmile Canyon Creek. ICON and the City is now
using this information to further study the behavior of the flood and evaluate
key areas that need to be restored to manage the changes.

ICON’s expertise is also apparent in the vast number of stormwater and drainage
master plans and designs the company has produced. Along the Colorado front
range, planning studies have been completed for the UDFCD, City of Fort Collins,
Southeast Metro Stormwater Authority, and the City of Boulder to name a few.
Other clients have included:  CWCB; Colorado Springs; Grand Junction; Sterling;
Summit County; and the Town of Eagle. Of particular note is our work in Grand
Junction where we developed a Master Plan that the City enacted through capital
expenditures in excess of $17 million. A portion of the cost was off-set by a
FEMA Mitigation Grant that ICON helped to acquire by preparing a full benefit
cost analysis. Each study involved a wide range of engineering tasks, including:
Hydrologic and hydraulic modeling; floodplain delineation; damage assessment;
alternatives analysis; economic analysis for benefits vs. costs; conceptual or
preliminary design presentation; and report preparation.

[Management]({{base}}management)
