---
layout: post
title: Little Dry Creek Update
author: Aaron
image: images/woodie-hollow.jpg
categories:
- news
description: Bank stabilization update for Woodie Hollow Park in Cherry Hills Village
---
The Town of Cherry Hills Village and the Urban Drainage and Flood Control
District collaborated on this maintenance project to address bank erosion
through Woodie Hollow Park.  This master planned reach of Little Dry Creek is
located just downstream of a previous bank stabilization project.  Unrestricted
flows out of the stabilized channel, combined with high velocity flows from a
tributary storm sewer outfall, directed hydraulic energy into the unprotected
north bank of Little Dry Creek and began undercutting trees.  The resulting
meander into the south bank threatened stability of a sanitary sewer manhole and
soft surface park trail.

The stabilization solution preserved the meander of the creek but reinforced the
outside bends with buried riprap.  The inside bends were stabilized with soil
lifts.  The channel was restored to proposed master plan grades by implementing
channel fill and a 18-inch boulder grade control structure at the downstream
limit.  A “no rise” floodplain permit was achieved by laying back the northern
channel bank to counteract the fill. The channel design also minimized tree
removals during construction, and where tree removals were necessary, noxious
species were targeted and replaced with native species in locations determined
by Cherry Hills Village staff. The trail alignment was lowered adjacent to the
soil lifts, reducing the bank height and bringing trail users closer to stream
environment and away from private properties.  The City will assist UDFCD in
maintaining the soil lifts through the first few seasons by irrigating the seed
plugs and vegetation.

Naranjo Civil Constructors and Arrowhead Landscaping built this project per
plan, on schedule, and at budget.
